I became one of Jehovah's Witnesses in 1975 in Zaire.
Zaire was under dictatorship at that time.
There was only one political party,
and everyone was supposed to join it.
Therefore, a position at work also required
a position in the political party.
I refused to have anything to do
with these political activities.
One day they asked me to be present for the flag salute.
I had to go and explain to all the workers
that had assembled why I didn't want to be there.
So as I said off understandably, I prayed a lot.
Until then, I would just stay out of sight.
But on that day, everyone was very angry.
So I had to be present.
On Saturday, a man from the party came.
He came to the office and started to yell,
who doesn't want to participate in political activities?
He carried on talking and called everyone to come outside.
So everyone went outside.
I stayed alone in the office.
On the way home, I thought maybe they were going to arrest me,
but they did not.
We went home, myself included.
Afterwards, besides having to face peer pressure
nearly every day, I was demoted.
One year the children didn't attend school
because we didn't have enough money.
Even for our day-to-day needs, it became difficult.
I didn't neglect spiritual things.
I always kept busy attending the meetings,
participating at the meetings in the ministry
with my personal study,
and even more so with my prayer to Jehovah.
Jehovah has blessed me because I'm still in the truth.
All that time he has blessed me to be neutral
is the best way to show that we support Jehovah's Kingdom
apart from the preaching work, obviously.
Even when the government goes against our activity,
we shouldn't take this as something bad or negative.
It can serve a purpose.
It can render a witness.
It is a witness in support of God's Kingdom,
the name of Jehovah and his authority.
Understanding it in that way, we will rely on Jehovah.
Jehovah never allows something without reason.